and cool bananas my name's Jay I'm one
of the teachers here at e2 language comm
in this live class we're going to look
at IELTS writing task 2 we're going to
look at the question prompt which says
discuss both views and give your opinion
now if you haven't seen it already I've
done another video up here or here or
where it is which is just discuss both
sides this one's different
this one's different and has that extra
bit on the end of the opinion so the one
that we looked at last time was just
discussed both sides okay
and the question prompt looks like this
it does not say give your opinion it
just says discuss both sides so what
does an IELTS 9si look like for this one
well it certainly doesn't have an
opinion because the question prompt
doesn't ask for your opinion you have to
be super careful on test day to read
that question prompt really carefully
maybe it will say and give your opinion
in which case you give your opinion you
follow the instructions well maybe it
will say discuss both sides and it says
nothing about giving your opinion so at
the end of the day read it carefully and
do what it says just follow the
instruction because if you go in there
and give your opinion and it didn't ask
for your opinion the examiners are gonna
go oh this person gave their opinion I
didn't ask for this you didn't read it
carefully read it carefully cool
so no opinion I just want to read you
the conclusion and the final sentence
and just listen to how this has no
opinion it says this essay discussed the
various reasons why parents hold these
points of view and whether mathematics
should remain a part of students school
studies or not there's nothing in there
that I say I believe this or I think
mathematics is important nothing in
there I just discussed both sides that's
it okay fine well what about this one
discuss both sides and give your opinion
well on test day it will look like this
okay now we know we know the general
instructions okay 40 minutes spend about
40 minutes and write at least 250 words
there's the there's the instructions and
don't worry the structure that I'm gonna
give you make sure you give reasons and
relevant examples bla bla bla bla bla
but this bit here is the central bit
okay and this is going to vary on test
day the question type will vary this one
says some people prefer to shop for food
in supermarkets other people prefer to
do their food shopping online discuss
both views and give your opinion okay
you want to stop and just think for a
second because if you miss read this and
just start writing writing writing
writing right let's say you talk about
online shopping are you gonna get a high
score for task response for answering
the question look at it closely it says
some people prefer to shop for food and
food shopping online so you can't be
talking about buying shoes or books or
whatever we're talking about
supermarkets and food shopping okay so
again the question prompt is critical
read it carefully if you miss it whoa
your score can drop from an 8 to a 6 or
a 7 to a 5 or something disastrous like
that but don't worry I'm gonna walk you
through this one we're gonna do it
sentence by sentence the other thing of
course with this question prompt it says
give your opinion fine what does an
IELTS 9si look like well I'm gonna step
you through this essay sentence by
sentence this is the one that I wrote
and I believe that this deserves an
IELTS 9 I don't know where the IELTS
actually ever give a 9 by the way but
this one deserves a 9 why I've written
to the prompt I've used really good
vocabulary perfect grammar and and and
in the structures it's well structured
it's a logical structure I'm gonna step
you through this I want you to get out a
pen and a piece of paper and we're going
to write this essay
sentence-by-sentence from beginning to
end because there's only one way to
learn how to write an essay and that's
by well first of all you need good
instruction but it's you need to write
the essay
this isn't theory this isn't something
you sort of think about go yeah I get
that no no no no this is riding a
bicycle you can't look at people riding
a by finger I sort of get it if you
don't know how to ride a bicycle and go
oh yeah I could see how that's possible
no you need to get on the bicycle and
ride it that's the only way you're going
to learn how to do this so let's do it
all right now the question prompt we
looked at does not have a general
statement so usually the general
statement is very helpful but that's
okay but it does have a side one and it
does have a side to side one says the
blue team says some people prefer to
shop for food in supermarkets side two
other people prefer to do their food
shopping online discuss both of these
views and give your opinion as to which
one is best essay structure we're gonna
have a four paragraph essay fine
but more specifically we're gonna have
an introduction plus our opinion we're
going to discuss side one we're going to
discuss side two and we're gonna have a
conclusion plus our opinion so we've
done exactly what this says we're going
to discuss both views and give our
opinion cool this is the structure that
we're going to use it looks confusing
but in fact it's not you'll notice that
well first of all what are you going to
notice well you'll notice that paragraph
1 and paragraph 2 use the exact same
structure ok this paragraph is exactly
the same as this so that's fine you you
really you don't have to memorize this
okay and and the introduction well you
have to write a general statement in the
conclusion you write a general statement
in sentence 3 this essay will discuss
why but why this one sentence 2 so
they're very similar so there's not much
to remember there that's fine that's
fine plus practice makes it easy to do
this let's start with the introduction
we're going to write a general statement
so as I said there's no general
statement here so we have to make one up
I'm going to show you what mine look
like so introduction sentence one write
a general statement the question prompt
says some people prefer to shop for food
in supermarkets other people prefer to
do their food shopping online my general
statement no opinion I'm not rewriting
the question prompt just a general
statement about this is large
supermarkets have recently introduced
online grocery shopping that is my
general statement right cool your turn I
want you to write a general statement
based on this prompt you have one minute
starting now
all right let's have a look just let me
get my timer out cool that's about 50
seconds oh no I haven't logged in from
another device what's going on hold on
hold on all right let me check these let
me take these general statements Cathy
Lowe online grocery shopping has become
increasingly popular these days good
that's a really easy phrase to remember
and it almost applies to every question
prompt increasingly popular or yes group
well done Rorty online shopping whoops
whoops whoops whoops it's moving it's
moving it's moving online shopping is
gaining popularity and being pushed by
large supermarkets beautiful great
general statement go preach nowadays
comma purchasing food items from
supermarkets and online food stores are
popular good kudos food is a basic and
most essential part of human being not
white general statement yes but it still
should be about online shopping versus
traditional shopping I should have been
a bit clearer with that so so I should
have said a general statement about
shopping and online shopping okay
gaining popularity is probably the
easiest and best one becoming
increasingly popular this is a phrase
you should probably commit to memory you
know whatever it is you could talk about
you know electric cars are becoming
increasingly popular or you know it can
be used in many of the IELTS essays it's
a really good way to start cool nowadays
grocery shopping is quite quite
happening not quite it's quite popular
Riya nowadays small supermarkets have
been replaced by large supermarkets by
online Noora Noora okay this this is a
great example you know this is off topic
this is we're not talking about large
supermarkets replacing smaller
supermarkets we're talking about online
shopping versus going to the shop in
person so the general statement has to
be about that because if you talk if
your opening sentence is about
how food is important or something
that's or or how large supermarkets are
destroying supermarkets smaller
supermarkets the IELTS examiner will
immediately drop your score so the
general statement and I'm sorry I should
have made it clear the general statement
has to be about this prompt here it has
to be about you know shopping for food
in supermarkets versus food shopping
online okay cool that's right that's
right that's right
get off - a little shaky start but will
get better sentence - now what we do is
we rewrite the question prompt in our
own words
so the question prompt says some people
prefer to shop for food in supermarkets
other people prefer to do their food
shopping online
so all I'm going to do is rewrite this
into my own words and I said this I made
one sentence and combined the two ideas
while many shoppers do their food
shopping online many still tend to
prefer shopping the traditional way by
visiting the supermarket
there's no opinion in here there's no
opinion all I have done is taken this
and re-written it in my own words okay
your turn
rewrite that question prompt try and do
it in a single sentence if you can maybe
you'll start with although or a word
like while while something something
something
you
right let me have a look at some of
these eat to students sa little
sentences here nammed nowadays one word
nowadays capital letter people like to
buy their food online while many still
prefer to visit supermarkets for
purchasing their food good excellent
food or food sometimes singular
sometimes pillow good Mohamed well done
Jason although some people find find
convenience of purchasing food online
others still prefer to personally go to
supermarkets good well done good char
well or Tundra
well some people shop online still some
would prefer to do it by visiting
supermarkets good this is easy rewriting
this question prompt in your own words
as easy just make sure you capture those
two ideas don't write something
off-topic okay well some people like to
do their grocery shopping online comma
others still prefer the traditional way
ruchi many people prefer to buy the
groceries online full stop however two
sentences no problem that's fine however
others still prefer the traditional way
good excellent fine you got it that's
pretty straightforward that's pretty
straightforward let's move on to the
third sentence the third and last
sentence of the introduction which is
basically a little template sentence I
want you to try the sentence is this
essay we'll discuss why but why because
this is where we're going to give our
opinion okay because we're going to
discuss the first side but then when I
go we're going to say but okay let me
just read you my sentence that's easier
this essay will discuss why side one or
whatever that side was online shopping
side online food shopping has its
benefits but why here's the other side
traditional food shopping is ultimately
superior this my friends is my opinion
and remember the question prompt asked
me to discuss both
and give me give my opinion I've done
this in this sentence and I've used this
nice little why but why structure which
i think is really good this essay will
discuss you can memorize this up to here
then you have to write this yourself and
then you memorize this but why and then
you have to give your opinion here okay
this says they will discuss why electric
sorry this is I will discuss why
electric cars have their benefits but
why petrol cars are better because they
are more powerful whatever it is you can
use this structure for anything so your
turn this essay will discuss why side
one or side two but why side one or side
two is ultimately better please write
this sentence
oops all right my fault wrong button
what am i doing I'm looking at the
sentences they eat to users khushboo
many customers I want this sorry I'm
looking at the wrong one this essay will
discuss why but why this essay will
discuss why traditional shopping is
still chosen look that one's unfinished
this essay will discuss why online
shopping has certain advantages and my
shopping in supermarket has the edge has
the edges a little bit informal is
superior would be a more formal way to
say that moment that's not bad though
kudos this essay will discuss why online
shopping has more benefits and
superiority and why many people prefer
the convenience but okay I think you
should do the side you're not going to
choose first but why this one is
ultimately better let's see if there's a
good one in here this essay will discuss
why traditional shopping is still
preferred by many people but others will
still choose online shopping yeah it
doesn't have your opinion maybe oh I'm
thinking this is my fault now come on
Victor what have you got this essay will
discuss why supermarket shopping is
still preferred by many people but why
online shopping is more convenient good
thanks Victor you got it
Victor's opinion is that online shopping
is better because it's more more
convenient so he's going to argue that
now that has to be your opinion Victor
for the rest of your essay so you can
still in your first paragraph discuss
traditional shopping and you know why it
has its benefits you know it's lovely
you can walk around you can select fruit
whatever but your second paragraph in
your conclusion have to talk about the
convenience of online food shopping and
why that's better than traditional so
once you have your opinion in this
introduction this third sentence that
has your opinion but why this side is
better you have to stick with it even if
you don't believe it that's beside the
point the point is that you're creating
a logical essay and you're sticking to
your guns let me just read one more and
see if you guys have got it
this essay will discuss why people
prefer online shopping but why
traditional shopping option is highly
opted highly opted mmm it's good the
structure is good you've got it but I
would just choose a different word and
I'd say why online why traditional
shopping is still more advantageous or
better or something like that cool
that's right that's right that's right
good
that one might require a bit of practice
so here's my introduction I'm going to
show you there are three purposeful
sentences in here right these sentences
are not random they have a purpose to be
in here and the purpose is to create a
beautifully structured introduction so
the first sentence I write a general
statement here we go a general statement
large supermarkets have recently
introduced online grocery shopping then
I rewrite the question okay I'm going to
rewrite the question it says while many
shoppers do their food shopping online
many still tend to prefer shopping the
traditional way by visiting the
supermarket there's no there's no
opinion in here or in the first sentence
now I get to my opinion and I say this
essay will discuss why online food
shopping has its benefits but why
traditional food shopping is ultimately
superior this third sentence is so
critical because this is going to become
my paragraph 1 online food shopping has
its benefits right this is going to
become my paragraph 1 but why and this
will become my paragraph 2 traditional
food shopping is still ultimately
superior or still is ultimately superior
so this actually leads on to my
paragraphs tour call call call how to
write paragraph 1 ok this is a bit
easier than the introduction so you can
take a deep breath and relax
the first sentence of paragraph 1 we
need to restate side 1 if we remember
back to the question prompt remember
there were two sides
there was a blue side in the red side so
side 1 some people prefer to shop for
food in supermarkets oh oh I've gone
what have I done
I'm sorry I've done this backwards I've
actually done side 2 I was doing this in
a rush I've done this in a rush let me
just do this right now so you don't
think I'm a complete and utter
forget that I'm actually gonna start
with side - fine I'm gonna start the
side - actually this brings me to a good
little teaching thing that I can tell
you it doesn't matter if you start with
side - and then go to side one in your
second paragraph like I've done here
that's fine you can mix it up doing side
1 first is there any benefit to that not
really the reason why I've chosen to do
side 2 and talk about online shopping
first is because what my opinion is at
the end is that traditional shopping is
better so for me to just what I want to
do is mention side mention online
shopping right in this first paragraph
and say yes online shopping is very
convenient then I'm going to go to my
side my other side and say traditional
shopping however is much more
pleasurable then I go to my conclusion
and say although online shopping is
efficient traditional shopping is more
pleasurable and therefore superior so if
you do need to discuss both sides and
give your opinion and I'm just thinking
of this now as I teach this it's
probably better to mention this the side
that you support the side that you want
to win mention that in the second
paragraph that's probably easier so I'm
sorry I've sort of mocked this up but
that's right let's just do this again
so in fact this was site tour so I've
started here with side side - fine
whatever
ah no I've completely screwed this up
this was I'm gonna pause this give me
two minutes
I'm gonna fix this I'm gonna fix this
because or else I'm just gonna confuse
the hell out of you the last thing I
want to do is that so then do restate
sighs - recite - and that was the red
one - did it deter the beauty of live
streaming right yeah oh dear this is
what happens yeah yeah yeah that's the
one I want that's the one I want here we
go to do to do introduction paragraph
one yes I'm gonna delete that I'm gonna
paste that there its elite side one cool
yes yes yes side one side - just give me
30 seconds I've nearly fixed my mess
here bumper bumper bomb yeah yeah yeah
yeah yeah one more thing I need to cut
and paste from here yeah that's the one
that's the one did it to do did it to do
cool alright I think I've sorted this
out think I've started sort of this out
yeah
actually give me another minute because
I realized that's continued on fine
that's fine that's fine cool and notes
like this and I'm gonna do it I hope I
can trim this on youtube later so you
guys don't have to look at me anything
what the hell is wrong with this guy
cool and sentence three
all right and I think the last one here
and - - and - and that's - that's one
and that's one fine good and nearly
finished nearly finished you live and
learn right living alone cool
all right I'm back just let me get back
to where I was here we go let's start
that again
right let's talk about how to write
paragraph one okay so what I have done
here my paragraph 1 I'm gonna start with
side - then I'm going to discuss side 1
now if you remember side 2 was the
online shopping 1 and side 1 was the
traditional shopping 1 now the reason I
have started like this is because I like
to start with the paragraph that I'm
going to destroy so my opinion is in
fact that I'm going to choose
traditional shopping is best fine so
what I like to do is talk about this one
first and say okay online shopping is
very efficient then in my second
paragraph side 1 I'll say however
traditional shopping is much more
pleasurable then in my conclusion I
stick with side 1 and say although
online shopping is efficient the
benefits of traditional shopping are
much more ok cool so aside to I'm gonna
start with side 2 and maybe you should
to other people who prefer to do their
food shopping online so what I need to
do is I
to restate this sentence other people
prefer to do their food shopping online
so I've said online food shopping is
certainly an efficient way to complete
what many people consider to be a
laborious chore so what I've sort of
done here is I've I haven't just written
many people like shopping online because
that's a little bit boring and that
probably won't get you that high score
so you've got to take this prompt of
many people prefer to do food shopping
online and sort of think about okay why
many people prefer to do their food
shopping online let me read you your
mind again I've said online food
shopping is certainly an efficient way
to complete what many people consider to
be a laborious chore see how you go with
this one here I went to the restate it's
actually side - there we go restate side
to
let me just check that check cool my e
to students haven't left me that's good
okay and we sure often people prefer
traditional shopping in supermarkets
then online okay this isn't this one's
about the online one but maybe you're
doing side one that's cool that's cool
that's cool go pre nowadays many people
choose online shopping because people
have less time due to their hectic
lifestyles great Ruchi
there are numerous compelling reasons
why online shopping is very efficient
good good good
sure Kathy online grocery shopping and
doubtedly brings much convenience to
people who do not have time to visit the
supermarket the supermarket great Kathy
that's a beautiful one well done
Mohammed online shopping is pretty much
convenient again a little bit informal
pretty much is an informal statement so
you could say Mohammed online shopping
is very convenient and people don't need
to waste their precious time roaming
around in supermarkets Mahmoud you have
excellent informal English and it's a
gonna be a little bit problematic in
your essay you have to be aware of what
is sort of you know conversational
language that you can use outside but
when you're writing this essay
especially if this is your taking IELTS
academic you can't use words like
roaming around or pretty much these are
beautiful conversational phrases but not
meant for the essay kudos online food
shopping experience fascinates a lot of
consumers because people these days
don't have hectic schedules they have
hectic schedules but I know what you're
trying to say they're cool fine well
done okay now we need to give reasons
and hopefully this yes yes just give
reasons here we go sentence to give
reasons other people prefer to do their
food shopping online a person can simply
click through a website and have food
delivered within a very short period of
time to one's door so my previous
sentence was about efficiency right
efficiency online shopping is very
efficient
that was the main gist of my sentence
now I'm giving a reason I say a person
can simply click through a website and
have food delivered within a very short
period of time to one's door so I want
you to do the same I want you to give a
reason or reasons that will be fine one
minute
right let me check these sentencers
reasons reasons reasons indeed comma in
just a click of a button a complete list
of food items could be delivered to once
with an apostrophe door step good Jason
that's it's a good one a little tiny few
errors but that's okay
smarter Anika by online shopping things
at just one click away which delivers
food to one's doorstep without stepping
outside physically it was a bit clunky
it was a bit clunky try and rewrite that
to be clearer I know with the advent of
online shopping one can purchase
groceries right from home no comma no
commute needed that can be delivered to
their house in a short a short period of
time good a few little errors RIA people
can place orders from home and deliver
the groceries within a short time period
good well done there's everything you
need is just one click away and quickly
delivered to your doorstep not those
steps unless you have more than one but
that's a phrase we use even though you
might have more than one step Ritchie
getting food at one's doorstep is just a
few clicks away with the help of online
shopping good reasons good reasons good
reasons well done third one give
examples now we need to give examples we
need to give examples for instance for
example what have I said I've said this
I've said as an example a major
supermarket in Australia promises a
three-hour turnaround time on grocery
delivery now is my evidence true is this
true do I know of a supermarket that
gives three hour turnaround time on
delivery no I just made this up and you
can feel free to make up your evidence
on test day that's fine so please give
an example or examples of online
shopping being efficient or whatever
your argument is
for instance mostly people order food
from swiggy in Bangalore which will
reach them in 30 minutes
good good yeah good I don't know what
swiggy is but now I do good
for instance Domino's Pizza in India
okay we're talking about this is an
interesting one remember we're talking
about food shopping as in groceries in
supermarkets so we don't want to start
talking about online delivery from
restaurants that's off topic off topic
always stick to that question prompt and
always while you're writing your essay
look back at the question prompt every
few minutes and just to make sure that
you're still writing on topic okay
that's a good little lesson baby ellie
is very easy to select multiple items
and pay through secure channel and items
will be delivered to your doorstep good
roots here for instance a recent study
suggests 70% of the Indian population
prefer to buy the groceries online
beautiful well done excellent that's
obviously not true but that's fine on
test day to make up statistics like that
for instance
s/m supermarket in the philippines
offers a wide variety of food choices
and can be delivered to any location in
just a few hours your order for one more
one more one more recently a study says
said a study revealed that online
shopping would give a turnaround time a
50% more efficient turnaround time with
several options available at your
fingertips good chandram but just a few
little squiggly bits there no problem no
problem last sentence of paragraph one
now we want to conclude it what I mean
by concluded is okay so we sort of go
like this we go we go to to do to do to
do to do and then we get to here and
then this needs to go to to do and sort
of connect the whole thing
this is logical structure logical
structure okay let me show you what
minded being able to shop online saves
busy people the unnecessary hassle of
having to visit the supermarket I'm
gonna read you my whole paragraph one
before you write your final sentence so
I have my opening sentence here that
says online food shopping is certainly
an efficient way to complete what many
people consider to be a laborious chore
and then I give a reason a person can
simply click through a website and have
food delivered within a very short
period of time to one's door example as
an example a major supermarket in
Australia promises a three hour
turnaround time on grocery delivery now
I tie it all together being able to shop
online saves busy people the unnecessary
hassle of having to visit the
supermarket in fact this sentence here
the final sentence is very similar to
your opening sentence and they sort of
say the same thing and by saying the
same thing they tie it all together so
see if you can work out what are we
doing yes conclude your first paragraph
it's sorry it should be conclude side
too
no all right what do we got why don't we
go what do we got whoops I have to kill
this hold on okay good yeah okay what
have we got what we got we need some
wrapping up sentence of concluding sand
hence it can be said that shopping oh
I've missed that last bit there
Muhammad online shopping enables one to
save hassle two visits to save the
hassle of visiting a supermarket and
lots of time it's a bit clunky kudos
hence proved that online is certainly
most effective keep your sentence is
simple all right here's a good tip
rather than writing a complex sentence
just to impress the examiners because
you're writing a long and complex
sentence if you struggle to do that
don't do it you're much better off to
write clear simple sentences then
complex sentences that don't make sense
okay keep if so you have to sort of self
evaluate here you have to ask yourself
am I good enough to write a long complex
sentence or look at the sentence you
write and go hmm is that too complicated
does that make perfect sense if it
doesn't make perfect sense then you want
to rewrite it and rewrite it more simply
because I can tell you that being a
teacher and it would be the same for an
IELTS examiner you're going to much
prefer a simple clear sentence that a
complex convoluted sentence that doesn't
make any sense
cool woopsie will run them there did it
I did it it whoops sorry let me see one
more of these sentences mmm
hence let me hence it can be said that
shopping for food online is faster and
can be safer for people with a busy
schedule okay you've brought a second
opinion in a second idea in there about
safety so if that wasn't mentioned
don't put it in if you're just writing
about convenience just write about
convenience don't in the final sentence
bring in safety or cost-effectiveness
stick to the one idea your paragraph
should be one idea all that all you're
doing with your paragraph is you're
talking about one idea and then you're
extrapolating you're expanding it you're
you're giving reasons examples and
you're wrapping it up with a concluding
sentence I feel like I'm being a grumpy
teacher today I apologize I apologize I
apologize let me read mine to you okay
online food shopping is certainly an
efficient way this is all about
efficiency right to complete what many
people consider to be a laborious chore
efficiency reason a person can simply
click through a website and have food
delivered within a very short period of
time efficiency to one's door as an
example a major supermarket in Australia
promises a three hour turnaround
efficiency on grocery delivery being
able to shop on live online saves busy
people the unnecessary hassle of having
to visit the supermarket efficiency
efficiency this whole paragraph never
deviates from efficiency it only talks
about one idea and that's it stick to
the one idea and just expand it out
that's all you have to do cool I hope
that's clear that's clear how to write
paragraph two well it's the same as
paragraph one okay it's the same
structure as paragraph one I'm sorry I'm
just gonna read you this one this one's
about traditional shopping traditional
shopping opening sentence so I restate
side one about traditional shopping but
not everyone needs to save time and
visiting a supermarket can in fact be an
extremely positive experience so this is
about visiting a supermarket traditional
supermarket and I'm going to talk about
this as a positive experience that's
going to
my theme for the paragraph walking
through the aisles allows one to choose
from a vast array of different products
and to decide exactly what goes into the
shopping basket for example I have to
turn off the alarm in my office hold on
one second
okay I'm back I'm back I'm back walking
through the aisles allows one to choose
from a vast array of different products
and to decide what exactly what goes
into the shopping basket for example
think about the variety of different
vegetables available at the supermarket
it is enjoyable selecting the best
avocado from the pile it goes without
saying that supermarket shopping if you
have the time can be a pleasurable
experience now I sort of said something
about what have I said I've mixed my
ideas a little bit here actually mmm I
did write this very quickly so maybe
this wouldn't be an IELTS 9 because this
paragraphs a little bit convoluted it's
not just about pleasure it's also about
the variety at the supermarket and
selecting that so if I were the IELTS
examiner and IMing examining my own
writing I would sort of say Jay it's
good like good grammar good vocabulary
good structure that the theme is not
just singular I've sort of got gone off
and a little bit of a tangent it's not
too bad though it's not too bad but
anyway that's my second paragraph you
will have to write yours in your own
time because now we're going to look at
how to write the conclusion okay how to
write the conclusion right sentence 1 of
the conclusion write a general statement
now that's cool because we've already
done that here remember we wrote a
general statement up here where we're
going to write another one that will use
different words so that's fine so
remember this is the idea and the
general statement should be about
traditional food shopping versus online
food shopping in terms of supermarkets
and groceries so I said this with the
introduction of online food shopping
traditional routines are being
challenged ok it's a bit of a general
statement about online food shopping
versus traditional food shopping cool
your turn right a general statement
please
all right let's have a look at this
webinar chat here ah okay where are we
where are we all right okay Ritchie to
recapitulate comma change in shopping
trends is ubiquitous mmm I don't think
that quite fits I would write that
differently
oh you've written another one
traditional shopping is facing a lot of
challenges with the introduction of
online shopping good well done well done
good traditional shopping is being
challenged by online shopping
keep it simple that's fine good to
conclude some people choose to buy food
and groceries online while some others
prefer to visit supermarkets in person
good that's fine we're about to rewrite
that in the next sentence though that's
okay
all in all online shopping saves people
time and money spent physically stepping
out so no I I don't know I think this
this presentation I've created may not
be the magical formula because the
sentences aren't quite there today maybe
it's just the the moon and the stars who
knows who knows cool fine now we're
going to say we're going to do this
sentence again this sentence again if
you remember this sentence from the
introduction this essay will discuss why
but why this time we say this essay
discussed why but why cool so here's
mine now before I do this let me explain
what it's discussing so this essay
discussed one my paragraph one why
online shopping can be an extremely
efficient process but why my paragraph
two shopping at the supermarket in
person can be such a pleasurable
experience so basically I'm just telling
the reader and reminding them I'm saying
this is a if you remember this is a
discussed why online shopping can be
very efficient but why traditional
shopping can be very pleasurable no real
opinion in there I've just said this is
a discussed side one and side to cool so
let's do this one this says they
discussed why but why and why well we
did we did actually site to and then we
did side one here side two was online
side one was the traditional
ah cool no problem let me check the chat
here let me check the chats did it I did
it okay here we go this essay discuss
why food shopping online can be time
efficient but my shopping through the
physical channel can be superior in
terms of choosing quality products
I like that well done this essay will
discuss no no no no the remember that's
the introduction this essay will discuss
in the future this essay discussed in
the past because you've already done it
that's the magic of verb tenses there
this essay discussed by online shopping
is efficient and convenient but why
traditional shopping is more pleasurable
and superior that's really nice well
done that well done
I know sure therefore that's the wrong
sentence this essay discussed not
discussed about just discuss no
preposition about needed just discussed
this essay discussed the online shopping
benefits but later emphasized the more
valuable traditional shopping which is
mostly preferable no I started off well
but then sort of went a bit Wiggly
marenick this essay discussed online why
online shopping is time efficient and
gaining more popularity whereas
traditional shopping has its own place
for being more pleasurable good that's
fine kudos this essay has discussed
Noro this essay discussed past simple
not present perfect this essay discussed
why online food shopping experience is
more preferable and my traditional
shopping still exists and is pleasurable
kudos you need some truth tutorial help
there a bit of written feedback go pre
this essay discussed by online shopping
can be easy but why shopping from
supermarkets is still more beneficial
good again keep it simple keep it simple
keep it simple if you're struggling keep
it simple here we go a last sentence of
the conclusion last sentence of the
essay in my opinion
here we go my opinion visiting the
supermarket offers superior experience
to online shopping that is a pretty
simple sentence and is it powerful well
it's not bad it's not bad I probably
could make it a bit spicier but there we
go it's not bad in my opinion comma
visiting the supermarket offers a
superior experience to online shopping
please write your final sentence in my
opinion you have one minute
alright alright alright
nearly there guys nearly there here we
go whatever got in my opinion kama
stepping out for supermarket shopping
makes me more relaxed than making me
than making online shopping in between
four walls again odds it's a bit wonky
it's a bit wonky Suresh in my opinion
traditional shopping is more pleasurable
and enjoyable good simple clear in my
opinion online shopping has more
benefits as it saves time and hassle as
compared with the traditional way of
shopping good kudos that's better well
done Mohammed in my opinion doing
shopping in a supermarket is my more
enjoyable than online shopping good
Jason in my opinion comma personal food
selection at the supermarket is more
beneficial than online shopping good
Prasanna in my opinion buying food and
groceries in the supermarket extends the
shopping experience itself okay we need
to say it's better at superior it's a
it's more advantageous than remember
this is the opinion so we want to make
our opinion very clear in that final
sentence because I can tell you that
these IELTS examiner's barely read your
essay they just skim over it and go to
do you need to make it explicit that
opinion very clear and so then they go
okay okay okay she's given our opinion
that's good I'll give her a 7.5 not a
6.5 or I'll give her an 8 not a 7.5
because your opinion was dead clear so
that's important nearly finished nearly
finished stick with me conclusion here's
mine with the member we we wrote we are
wrote a general statement with the
introduction of online food shopping
traditional routines are being
challenged this essay discussed why
online shopping can be an extremely
efficient process
but why shopping at the supermarket in
person can be such a pleasurable
experience here it is is the big
sentence in my opinion visiting the
supermarket
superior experienced online shopping
cool and that my friends is an essay of
258 words that's how it should look on
your test paper in paragraph form with a
gap between the paragraphs you can
notice that the introductory paragraph
and the conclusion paragraph are a bit
well there are sentence shorter than
your body paragraphs make sure you write
over 250 words it can be the difference
between an eight and a seven point five
I don't know exactly how many marks the
IELTS examiner's detract if you don't
reach the 250 word mark but yeah I'm
pretty sure it's significant cool why is
this Niall 2:9 well or at least an eight
point five I've written on topic this
structure means that you cannot write
off-topic
okay you have to be careful as we found
out with this general statement now not
too general not too general online
shopping versus traditional shopping and
again not too general online shopping
traditional shopping a general statement
okay but otherwise if you follow this
structure you will stay on topic and
again as I said when you're writing your
essay on test day writing writing
writing look up just check the question
prompts just always check again again oh
yeah yep I'm still on topic good good
good I'm still because if you start
writing and look up and go oh I'm off
topic stop go back start again it might
just be a little change that you need
write precise vocabulary whoa
what have I got I've got what I've got
phrases like recently introduced I've
got phrases like tend to prefer I've got
phrases like ultimately superior I've
got phrases like a very short period of
time
I've got phrases like a three hour
turnaround time
I've got good phrases vocabulary is not
just single words okay
the odd good adjectives or the odd good
verb for example is a good thing to do
but vocabulary is more than that
vocabulary is is is word combinations
phrases natural sounding groups of words
like very short turnaround time or tend
to prefer or recently introduced these
types of phrases are the ones that push
your writing from a 6.5 mm right up
towards that nine level okay yes they're
important what about grammar
what about grammar well let's have a
look let's have a look this these are my
two body paragraphs so I'm just going to
point out the verbs food shopping ears
what many people consider there's
another verb a person can simply click
so I'm just using have have delivered
here we've got a present perfect so I've
got a simple present here simple present
simple present simple present but here
I've got a present perfect simple
present being able to shop online save
simple present I use any past tenses in
there it doesn't really matter it's not
up so much about the variety of verb
tenses it's more about are you
communicating your message clearly you
shouldn't be thinking to yourself I need
to use perfect present I need to use
present continuous in my verb tenses no
it's more like what am I trying to say
and which verb says it best that's what
you're trying to do because when you
just focus on communicating the message
as clearly as possible that's when you
write clearly if you sit there and think
I'm going to use a present perfect verb
to do to do it's not
to make much sense and what you want is
sense you want it to be clear so I've
used a variety of verbs I've used a
variety of different adjectives for
example there's an adjective
unnecessary inter my nouns aisle or
aisles I've use plural nouns in the
right spot so my grammar is good last
one I've used a logical structure well
yes again this is a logical structure
from beginning to end the the
introduction connects to the conclusion
the introduction connects to paragraph 1
and the introduction connects to
paragraph 2 and we learned that the
conclusion connects back to the to the
body paragraphs as well and the
conclusion connects back to the
introduction so what we've got here is
what you would call a very logical
structure it's a beautiful structure
it's a beautiful structure that is the
end of that I'm sorry about the big
mix-up that I did in the middle of that
webinar but that's cool now I'm gonna
spend some time answering some questions
here we go
Bubba Riley how to improve vocabulary
okay
as I said vocabulary is not about
learning single words vocabulary is
about paying attention to how native
English speakers use combinations of
words together phrases collocations not
so much idioms they're not relevant in
this essay but what you should be doing
when you read a newspaper or reading an
article in English look at how the
adjective and the noun combination look
at look at the verb now in combination
look at the Heather not don't just look
at a single word but look at the word
next to it and notice what word is next
to it because native English speakers
are not very creative although we have
all these words that we could use most
of the time would just repeat
seeing phrases that common and that
makes life a bit easier hi Jay you email
or can we see this essay in the e to
language website this video will remain
on YouTube I think so you can check it
out there if you want
Juliet J to state my opinion would it be
possible to use the word like the former
or latter in the conclusion yes you can
use that phrase former and latter of
course former means the first one latter
means the second one like later okay
yeah that's cool you can say you can use
that real one question in this type of
essay do we provide our opinion only in
the conclusion well no because I'm I'm
pretty sure that we provided it in let
me have a look we provided it in the
introduction as well because we said
this essay will discuss why online food
shopping has its benefits but why
traditional food shopping is ultimately
superior so in fact we've set our
opinion here and we've set our opinion
here so that's why the examiners will
like it because it's clear so we had to
discuss both sides and give our opinion
so here we discussed side two here we
discussed side one here we gave our
opinion and here we gave our opinion so
it works that's why this that's why this
works whoopsie
and then again cool okay kudos Jay I got
a 60 in my written feedback from E to
language comm how much is that in terms
of a band score that's about a five
point five or six there kudos so you've
got a bit of work to do you've got a bit
of work to do that's fine
cool all right all right all right now
people on YouTube I see you out there
and I see that you haven't clicked the
like button and I wonder why I would
very much appreciate it if you could
click like I would very much a priest
you could leave a comment and if you're
not a subscriber do subscribe so you can
catch these webinars these live classes
when they appear online if you haven't
checked out the website and if you need
help with your IELTS writing do check
out the website of e to language calm we
offer tutorials we offer written
feedback we offer met offer methods
lessons lots of practice materials it's
all good they're ready to write it's
time for me to go home I'll bid you all
farewell and Baber le you can go just
type into the YouTube chat e to IELTS
good all right I'll catch you guys on
the flipside